# Version 1
### Author: Valentín de la Peña
### Date: 4/11/25

We're going to start with the simplest implementation I can think of.

A blank UI with a chatbox (React), a single API call in the backend (FastAPI), and a database to store chat logs (SQLite). I'll be adding the documents I need to access into the repo (although not uploading them to Github obviously).

Later, I'll want to incorporate Docker, add a file input to the UI (and give it some character), eventually switch to PostgreSQL with pgvector for embeddings or MongoDB depending on what my data looks like, and obviously work on the backend.

## Project Needs

Although I want the system to help the user learn, the first priority is helping the user study. To do so, it has to fill the following processes.

1. Break down and classify input documents
2. Identify the most effecient path for covering all material
    1. Understand pre-requisites and order things correctly
        1. Populate the page with the listed topics for easy selection of tailored studying
    2. Identify connections between different topics and create a framework for asking questions that cover multiple topics at once
        1. Show breakdowns by topic on the page
    3. Create a framework for generating study plans based on a user's request and current background knowledge
3. Personalize material for the user
    1. Update study plan as the user completes study sessions
        1. Do this dynamically within a study session
    2. Create schedules for spaced repetition of learned concepts
    3. Alternate material and attempt to make it more engaging to promote user interest and longer/more consistent study sessions

## What is a study guide?

* The ideal topics, defined specifically and rigorously, to study given the length of the session, user interest, and user goals/benchmarks (all entered by user)
* A formulation of questions that fits the above

## Document Breakdown

1. Break the input documents down by using a tree with simplifying steps

2. Create embeddings

3. Create a graph with weighted edges from those embeddings

4. Run Djikstra's algorithm or A* to get the shortest path

5. Generate questions based on clusters?

6. Create a naive LLM implementation for benchmarking

## How will questions be formulated? What is a good question?

1. Metrics
    1. How many leaps of logic are required to correctly answer the question?
    2. **A good question: can be answered very quickly when appropriate concepts are understood. Is impossible to answer if concepts are shaky. Uses connections a user already knows to build new connections**
    3. For an average user, how quickly will they answer the questions, how quickly are they able to form new connections, etc. 

## Adding projects

Beyond just asking questions, I think it would be effective if the agent were able to generate projects, ranging from small problems to full-scale applications, in order to stimulate learning. What I've discovered is that it's essential to have a human in the design process loop.

While specific to students, transcripts are incredibly effective at communicating learned knowledge and prior connections, even if they're rusty. Adding a resume (or LinkedIn in the future) rounds that out nicely. So if the agent is able to ask clarifying questions, determine interests, passions, and motivations (which requires a good faith effort from the user).

I also learned about testyourprompt.com which is crazy that I hadn't heard of before. I haven't joined non-technical AI groups because they're high noise, low signal, but they come up with effective tools every now and then.